# CompositeLayer Class

The `CompositeLayer` class is a subclass of the [Layer Class](/docs/api-reference/layer.md), that customizes various [layer lifecycle methods](/docs/developer-guide/custom-layers/layer-lifecycle.md) to help create sublayers and handle events from those layers.

If you intend to implement a layer that generates other layers, you should extend this class.

For more information consult the [Composite Layers](/docs/developer-guide/custom-layers/composite-layers.md) article.


## Usage

Define a composite layer that renders a set of sublayers, one of them conditionally

```js
class MyCompositeLayer extends CompositeLayer {
  renderLayers() {
    return [
      this._renderGroupOfSubLayers(), // returns an array of layers
      this.props.showScatterplot && new ScatterplotLayer(...)
    ];
  }
}
```


## Constructor

```js
new CompositeLayer(...props);
```

Parameters:

* `props` (Object) - `Layer` properties.


## Properties

Inherits from all [Base Layer](/docs/api-reference/layer.md) properties.

##### `_subLayerProps` (Object) **EXPERIMENTAL**

Key is the id of a sublayer and value is an object used to override the props of the sublayer. For a list of ids rendered by each composite layer, consult the *Sub Layers* section in each layer's documentation.

Example: make only the point features in a GeoJsonLayer respond to hover and click

```js
import {GeoJsonLayer} from '@deck.gl/layers';

new GeoJsonLayer({
  // ...other props
  pickable: false,
  _subLayerProps: {
    points: {
      pickable: true
    }
  }
});
```

Example: use IconLayer instead of ScatterplotLayer to render the point features in a GeoJsonLayer

```js
import {IconLayer, GeoJsonLayer} from '@deck.gl/layers';

new GeoJsonLayer({
  // ...other props
  _subLayerProps: {
    points: {
      type: IconLayer,
      iconAtlas: './icon-atlas.png',
      iconMapping: './icon-mapping.json',
      getIcon: d => d.sourceFeature.feature.properties.marker,
      getColor: [255, 200, 0],
      getSize: 32,
      updateTriggers: {
        getIcon: triggerValue
      }
    }
  }
});
```


## Methods

##### `draw`

A composite layer does not render directly into the WebGL context. The `draw` method inherited from the base class is therefore never called.

##### `renderLayers`

Allows a layer to "render" or insert one or more deck.gl layers after itself.
Called after a layer has been updated.

Returns:

* `null`, a single `Layer` instance, or a (nested) array of layers.

The default implementation of `renderLayers` returns `null`.

`renderLayers` can return a nested arrays with `null` values. deck.gl will automatically flatten and filter the array. See usage above.


##### `getPickingInfo`

Called when a sublayer is being hovered or clicked, after the `getPickingInfo`
of the sublayer has been called.
The composite layer can override or add additional fields to the `info` object
that will be passed to the callbacks.

Parameters:

* `pickParams` (Object)
  + `pickParams.info` (Object) - The current `info` object. By default it contains the
  following fields:

    - `x` (Number) - Mouse position x relative to the viewport.
    - `y` (Number) - Mouse position y relative to the viewport.
    - `coordinate` ([Number, Number]) - Mouse position in world coordinates. Only applies if the
      [`coordinateSystem`](/docs/api-reference/layer.md#-projectionmode-number-optional-)
      prop is set to `COORDINATE_SYSTEM.LNGLAT`.
    - `color` (Number[4]) - The color of the pixel that is being picked. It represents a
      "picking color" that is encoded by
      [`layer.encodePickingColor()`](/docs/api-reference/layer.md#-encodepickingcolor-).
    - `index` (Number) - The index of the object that is being picked. It is the returned
      value of
      [`layer.decodePickingColor()`](/docs/api-reference/layer.md#-decodepickingcolor-).
    - `picked` (Boolean) - `true` if `index` is not `-1`.
  + `pickParams.mode` (String) - One of `hover` and `click`
  + `pickParams.sourceLayer` (Layer) - the sublayer instance where this event originates from.

Returns:

* An `info` object with optional fields about what was picked. This object will be passed to the layer's `onHover` or `onClick` callbacks.
* `null`, if the corresponding event should be cancelled with no callback functions called.

The default implementation returns `pickParams.info` without any change.


##### `getSubLayerProps`

This utility method helps create sublayers that properly inherit a composite layer's basic props. For example, it creates a unique id for the sublayer, and makes sure the sublayer's `coordinateSystem` is set to be the same as the parent.

Parameters:

* `subLayerProps` (Object)
  + `id` (String, required) - an id that is unique among all the sublayers generated by this composite layer.
  + `updateTriggers` (Object) - the sublayer's update triggers.
  + Any additional props are optional.

Returns a properties object used to generate a sublayer, with the following keys:

* `id` - a unique id for the sublayer, by prepending the parent layer id to the sublayer id.
* `updateTriggers` - merged object of the parent layer update triggers and the sublayer update triggers.
* Base layer props that are directly forwarded from the base layer:
  + `opacity`
  + `pickable`
  + `visible`
  + `parameters`
  + `getPolygonOffset`
  + `highlightedObjectIndex`
  + `autoHighlight`
  + `highlightColor`
  + `coordinateSystem`
  + `coordinateOrigin`
  + `wrapLongitude`
  + `positionFormat`
  + `modelMatrix`
* Any other additional props from the input parameter are directly forwarded.
* Any overriding props specified in `_subLayerProps`.


##### `shouldRenderSubLayer`

Called to determine if a sublayer should be rendered.
A composite layer can override this method to change the default behavior.

Parameters:

* `id` (String) - the sublayer id
* `data` (Array) - the sublayer data

Returns `true` if the sublayer should be rendered. The base class implementation returns `true` if either `data` is not empty or the `_subLayerProps` prop contains override for this sublayer.


##### `getSubLayerClass`

Called to retrieve the constructor of a sublayer.
A composite layer can override this method to change the default behavior.

Parameters:

* `id` (String) - the sublayer id
* `DefaultLayerClass` - the default constructor used for this sublayer.

Returns:

Constructor for this sublayer. The base class implementation checks if `type` is specified for the sublayer in `_subLayerProps`, otherwise returns the default.

##### `getSubLayerRow`

Used by [adapter layers](/docs/developer-guide/custom-layers/composite-layers.md#transforming-data)) to decorate transformed data with a reference to the original object.

Parameters:

* `row` (Object) - a custom data object to pass to a sublayer.
* `sourceObject` (Object) - the original data object provided by the user
* `sourceObjectIndex` (Object) - the index of the original data object provided by the user

Returns:

The `row` object, decorated with a reference.


##### `getSubLayerAccessor`

Used by [adapter layers](/docs/developer-guide/custom-layers/composite-layers.md#transforming-data)) to allow user-provided accessors to read the original objects from transformed data.

Parameters:

* `accessor` (Function|Any) - the accessor provided to the current layer.

Returns:

* If `accessor` is a function, returns a new accessor function.
* If `accessor` is a constant value, returns it as is.

## Source

[modules/core/src/lib/composite-layer.js](https://github.com/uber/deck.gl/blob/master/modules/core/src/lib/composite-layer.js)
